It all go back to intro to data science and today's step is about databases.
So why are databases important.
Well let's have a look at our data science process as we discussed five steps and the step that is the
largest apart from present your findings that surprised that at the end.
Apart from that the largest step is prepare the data.
This one we here and that is that step involves getting data from somewhere and then dealing with it.
And so this is where databases come in.
The reason why we're including databases as a step in your getting started into the Science Guy is because
whilst we have statistics and some of his position he created two data sets databases will expands your
reach and allow you to get access to more data.
You can do data size without data.
And that's why databases are important.
So that's on one hand.
They allow you to access more data.
So when you're sourcing a data when you're talking to clients or to internal departments you know how
to deal with those databases and therefore you can get to that data but also databases are important
because they will allow you to perform your lyrics in a more structured manner or you'll be able to
put your data that you have rather than just keeping in Excel spreadsheets or in Says view files all
the time.
You'll actually be able to upload it to a database especially if you have a lot of data that is very
useful.
You upload it to a database you structure your own table structure your own schemas and you set everything
up so that everything is prepared for analysis and everything is very well organized and that and it's
also repeatable it's also orderable there's a trace of everything.
And that is the more professional approach to designs.
So in the end it's always good to know more and more and more about any of the topics and designs and
move time.
If you study database or you encounter databases with time you will get better and better and better
than with them.
But at the same time even just to get started it's a good idea to understand even a little bit about
databases how they work and how to may be extracted.
That would be the first step how to extract data from that database.
All right and now let's quickly have a look at what kind of databases are popular these days.
So we're going to zoom our way here to D-B Highfill angels dot com a very popular Web site.
Well popular because I've used a lot of that today.
I think a lot of people use that as well in terms of ranking database management system.
So DBMSs stands for database management system.
If you look here you'll see that the reason why it's impossible to know everything.
Look at how many different database management systems exist that are just listed on this website.
There's like over 300 different systems.
Yeah.
And they're all rags here so the ones that we care about are usually the top four or five maybe you
know like depending on on how far you want to go and what what you're working with.
But the top four have are and have been for a very long time.
Oracle by Escurial Microsoft Asgill server and postgresql.
The interesting thing about them is that they're very similar.
All of them are very similar.
They all are a scale type databases.
Oracle's probably been around for the longest it's been since Aransas 1970s or something like that.
And that's why it's so high up because it's entrenched in a lot of companies a lot of large corporates
don't want to change.
And saying oracles are a good software.
I haven't used that personally but must be good software.
So many companies use it but it's been around for so long that's why it's up top there.
At the same time I've predominantly used Microsoft as you also are.
I've also worked with my secure all that's mostly for my own web sites I've studied postgresql and worked
it a little bit but it's also very useful and powerful as you all type of database.
So what I can say from my work of my asshole as Yasser and PASIAS skills they're all very similar.
They are nuances to them.
But if you know how to work with one you can very easily and quickly pick up hard to work either one
Mogo to be a bit different.
It's a no as well type of database.
It's used for a different type of storage so this is where we getting to something a bit different.
Then there's other tools as well like hive you know SAP HANA what else.
Some big data tools here at least in pollos will spark spark Escurial Greenplum.
That's big data tool and stuff like you do Hadoop was enabled Greenplum works at Purdue and things like
that.
So there's lots of different types you can get into.
But the starting point is one of these you know like postgresql Yul's free of free software a lot of
startups used postgresql.
So you know that's that's one way to go about things.
On the other hand Microsoft as you also are is very popular and has a large community of users that
can help you out.
Kind of like Tablo has a large community in space exhiliration.
Yeah those are the real tools.
And I'm just going to go back to the presentation quickly to recap on this.
So let's go past this recap.
Start by learning one of their skill database systems DBMS's.
Just pick one whichever you like.
I would you know if you if you don't always have that big audio of the postgresql or Microsoft's scale
server I personally prefer Microsoft skills are but problem is it doesn't really work on a Mac it's
hard to make it work there.
Yeah.
So as always you start with that.
That's good enough.
Don't jump into things like big data right away and more advanced things.
Then there are unstructured data you know like things like Mongo D.B and other databases that can help
work with unstructured data and then we've got big data that's like that's the person you go through
but for now for this getting started into their signs even a basic understanding of how Asgill databases
work and what they're all about and maybe some basics of scripting languages that will really help you
get started as one of the first things that I learned when I was getting started at the word and really
really helped me as well.
Don't overdo it just as statistics are discussed there.
Basic simple start will be sufficient.
That is the skill.
Databases Okay.
And on that note I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
I look for Unix then.
Until then enjoy the Edisons.